Add info for Mayastor kubectl plugin (#31)
openebs/mayastor-docs: reference/kubectl-plugin.md

---
description: >-
This section provides an overview of Mayastor kubectl plugin. It includes installation, usage and current scope of the plugin.
---

# Mayastor kubectl plugin

The ‘Mayastor kubectl plugin’ can be used to view and manage Mayastor components such as nodes, pools and volumes. Apart from this, the plugin can also be used for operations such as scaling up/down volumes. 

### Installation

- The Mayastor kubectl plugin is available for the Linux platform. To download the binary click [here]  (https://github.com/mayadata-io/mayastor-control-plane/releases). Once downloaded, ensure that it is added to PATH.

> - Next, clone the [openebs/mayastor-control-plane](https://github.com/mayadata-io/mayastor-control-plane) GitHub repository. This repository will be used to perform builds of the downloaded binary plugin. To clone,

Author: Removing the build section. Providing info about the source where the binary can be found.

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="Command" %}
```text
git clone https://github.com/openebs/mayastor-control-plane
cd mayastor-control-plane
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

- To execute the build:

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="Command" %}
```text
nix-build -A utils.release.kubectl-plugin
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

{% hint style="warning" %}
To execute the build ensure that your setup has [rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install) and [nix](https://nixos.org/download.html) configured. Rust is needed to compile the binary and the nix environment provide us with the required dependencies. 
{% endhint %}

To verify the installation, execute:

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="Command" %}
```text
kubectl mayastor -v
```
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Expected Output" %}
```text
kubectl-plugin 0.1.0
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

{% hint style="warning" %}

> The current kubectl-mayastor plugin version is 0.1.0, which is compatible with the following component versions:

Author: Confirmed, the plugin will be versioned at 1.0.0 for release.

    mayastor-pool-1  5360320512      1111490560     aio:///dev/vdb?uuid=d8a36b4b-0435-4fee-bf76-f2aef980b833  kworker1  Online  true
    mayastor-pool-2  5360320512      2172649472     aio:///dev/vdc?uuid=bb12ec7d-8fc3-4644-82cd-dee5b63fc8c5  kworker1  Online  true
    mayastor-pool-3  5360320512      3258974208     aio:///dev/vdb?uuid=f324edb7-1aca-41ec-954a-9614527f77e1  kworker2  Online  false
    
    ```
    {% endtab %}
    {% endtabs %}

 3. Nodes

    {% tabs %}
    {% tab title="Command" %}
    ```text
    kubectl mayastor get nodes
    ```
    {% endtab %}

    {% tab title="Expected Output" %}
    ```text

     ID          GRPC ENDPOINT   STATUS
     mayastor-2  10.1.0.7:10124  Online
     mayastor-1  10.1.0.6:10124  Online
     mayastor-3  10.1.0.8:10124  Online
    ```
    {% endtab %}
    {% endtabs %}

 {% hint style="warning" %}
 All the above resource information can be retrieved for a particular resource using its ID. The command to do so is as follows:
 kubectl mayastor get &lt;resource_name&gt; &lt;resource_id&gt;
 {% endhint %}

> Mayastor kubectl plugin can also be used for implementing operations such as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Mayastor kubectl plugin can also be used for performing the following operations:
```

> 1. Scaling up volume using Volume ID

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Scaling the replica count of a volume
```

    ```
    {% endtab %}
    {% endtabs %}

3. Retrieving replica topology for specific volumes.

   {% tabs %}
    {% tab title="Command" %}
    ```text
     kubectl mayastor get volume-replica-topology <volume_id>
    ```
    {% endtab %}

    {% tab title="Expected Output" %}
    ```text
     ID                                    NODE      POOL              STATUS
     93b1e1e9-ffcd-4c56-971e-294a530ea5cd  ksnode-2  pool-on-ksnode-2  Online
     88d89a92-40cf-4147-97d4-09e64979f548  ksnode-3  pool-on-ksnode-3  Online
    ```
    {% endtab %}
    {% endtabs %}

{% hint style="warning" %}

> The plugin needs access to `mayastor rest server` for execution. It gets the master node IP from the kube-config file. In case of any failure, the rest endpoint can be specified using the ‘–rest’ flag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The plugin requires access to the `Mayastor REST server` for execution. It gets the master node IP from the kube-config file. In case of any failure, the REST endpoint can be specified using the ‘–rest’ flag.
```

{% endhint %}

### Limitations:

- The plugin currently does not have authentication support.
- The plugin can operate only over HTTP.

> - In the case of a multi-cluster setup, the plugin by default picks up the first master node IP for REST access. In case  REST is not accessible using the selected master node IP, the plugin would not be able to pick up an alternate worker node IP by default.

Reviewer: I'm not sure what "multi-cluster" refers to in this context.  Do we mean a cluster with multiple master nodes?  If so, we should say that.  If we mean the practice/pattern of deploying apps across multiple k8s clusters for HA, then this isn't tested or supported for Mayastor.
Also, REST should be "REST service" or "REST endpoint" e.g. In case the REST service is not available.

Author: Yes, by multi-cluster setup I mean multiple master nodes. Updating the text for clarity.
